
# Learning from Arch Linux

Arch is an open source, rolling release distribution. is a Linux distribution well-known for its extremely complete wiki. Almost certainly, you should have reached an Arch's wiki entry searching for troubleshooting about other  distributions.

If your're wiling to enlarge your knowledge about Linux, it's highly recommended trying to install Arch or another terminal-installation based distro al least once, because GUI linux installers made that task easier. On the contrary, Arch installation is completely based on terminal commands.

You can download Arch from [here](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Beginners%27_guide#Keyboard_layout).

[This](https://www.archlinux.org/download/) has been the guide followed to install Arch to a partition in my hard drive. You could also try it in a virtual machine!.

Beforehand you must know you're gonna need an Internet Connection to install Arch. The main goal of installing Arch is learning, so if you follow my steps strictly to the letter, you aren't gonna learn as much as if you found your own path. This would be handy in case you got stuck in a step.

## Booting from a usb in UEFI

The image of arch can be copied to an usb and made booteable by running ``dd`` as it follows:

~~~ bash
dd bs=4M if=/path/to/archlinux.iso of=/dev/sdx && sync
~~~

It would be sufficient to boot with Secure Boot disabled ([Here](http://fdavidcl.me/tagged/uefi) you've got some useful information about it).

## Installation

Once in the installer, you'll get a terminal.

### Pre-donwnloading

As usual, keyboard layout may be wrong with the desired one, so you'll have to change it typing:

~~~ bash
loadkeys layout
~~~

where possibles values for layout can be consulted in the wiki. 

In my case I configured a wifi conection with ``wifi-menu``, but configurieg ``dhcpcd`` and its configuration file in ``/etc`` would be sufficient.

Now it's time to prepare partitions. At least a partition ``/`` is needed, but you could also split these partition from ``/var``, ``/home``, swap partition,  \ldots. In order to do that I used parted, as explained in Arch's wiki, but ``fdisk`` and ``gdisk`` could also fill that porpouse.

I needed to do a triple boot, because I have Widnows and Ubuntu also installed in the same machine, and I wanted to keep Ubuntu's boot, so once I created ``/`` partition, I mounted both this partition and EFI's one in a folder in ``mnt``:

~~~ bash
mkdir -p /mnt/boot/efi
mount /dev/sdxB /mnt/boot/efi
~~~

where ``-p`` option creates also parent dirctories if they don't exist, and ``sdxB`` was my EFI partition.

### System installation

Can be made typing:

~~~ bash
pacstrap -i /mnt
pacstrap -i /mnt base base-devel
~~~

This is the step that needs internet connection.

### Generation of fstab

In order to mount the ``/`` and the ``/boot/efi``, you should either execute:

~~~ bash
genfstab -U -p /mnt >> /mnt/etc/fstab
~~~

or manually configure ``/mnt/etc/fstab``.

Up to this point, there is a ``bash`` [script](https://github.com/analca3/Install-Archlinux-Script/blob/master/Install-Archlinux-Script.sh) that does all the donkey work, thanks to [\@analca3](https://github.com/analca3).

### Configuring the system

We have to do a ``chroot`` now to configure the system.
If we want to do it through the current terminal:

~~~ bash
arch-chroot /mnt /bin/bash
~~~

But in case you need to complete the installation through other operative system (Linux preferred) you can mount the created Arch partition inside that system, and do a ``chroot`` (or equivalent), with ``sdxA`` the partition in which Arch
is stored:

~~~ bash
mkdir arch
cd arch
sudo mount /dev/sdxA .
mount -t proc proc proc/
mount -t sysfs sys sys/
mount -o bind /dev dev/
mount -t devpts pts dev/pts/
mount --rbind /run run/
chroot . /bin/bash
~~~

Once done the chroot:

If you want more information, as usual, in the Arch's wiki there's plenty of information: [Here](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Change_root). And [Here](https://shafeeqk.wordpress.com/2012/07/02/archlinux-chroot/)

term
: Tip!
~~~
cp -L /etc/resolv.conf ./arch/etc/resolv.conf
~~~
[Source](http://superuser.com/questions/111152/whats-the-proper-way-to-prepare-chroot-to-recover-a-broken-linux-installation)

We need to install, using ``pacman -S <packages>``:

* ``iw``, that is used to find Wifi's devices names.

* ``wpa_supplicant``, that is used to connect to WPA networks

* ``dialog``, which is utilized to display dialog boxes in shells.


Now with ``wifi-menu`` we can connect to an interface.

